incorporate minimalism feedback on distributing collections page (#75266)
ansible/ansible: docs/docsite/rst/dev_guide/developing_collections_distributing.rst

Distributing collections
************************

A collection is a distribution format for Ansible content. A typical collection contains modules and other plugins that address a set of related use cases. For example, a collection might automate administering a particular database. A collection can also contain roles and playbooks.

To distribute your collection and allow others to use it, you can publish your collection on one or more distribution servers. Distribution servers include:

> * Ansible Galaxy (accepts all collections)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Ansible Galaxy accepts all collections.
```
From the IBM style guide:

> Use parentheses to identify items such as abbreviations, symbols, and measurements, but avoid using
parentheses in general text.

Author: Thanks for the pointer @sagidlow. I'm not sure this the right change to make the doc follow the IBM style guide's guidance on parentheses here. The main point of this list is "here are the three distribution servers you can use", so turning each item into a sentence about which collections each one accepts feels odd. I might turn this into a table instead, with a column for `Distribution server` and another for `Content accepted`.

Author: Added a table in 2b84951fc61422551f159ccf5df686beff5fb23e.

> * Red Hat Automation Hub (accepts only collections certified by Red Hat)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Red Hat Automation Hub accepts only collections certified by Red Hat.
```

From the IBM style guide:

> Use parentheses to identify items such as abbreviations, symbols, and measurements, but avoid using  parentheses in general text.

> * privately hosted Automation Hub instances (accepts collections authorized by the owners)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Privately hosted Automation Hub instances accepts collections authorized by the owners.
```

From the IBM style guide:

> Use parentheses to identify items such as abbreviations, symbols, and measurements, but avoid using parentheses in general text.

Distributing collections involves four major steps:

> #. Initial configuration of your distribution server or servers

Reviewer: The #. was showing up as #. in the actual documentation. Should these not be replaced with a numbered list?

Author: The `#.` is the correct syntax for building numbered lists in Sphinx. In the original this was showing up as `#.` because the doc didn't have a blank line above the numbered list. This PR fixes the problem by adding the blank line, see http://docs.testing.ansible.com/ansible-core/devel/dev_guide/developing_collections_distributing.html.

.. _config_distribution_server:

Initial configuration of your distribution server or servers
============================================================

> 

Reviewer 2: This isn't really required if you are just using community galaxy as it is pre-configured.  Might be useful calling that out since we are expanding the docs.

Author: The server is pre-configured, but you still need to get an API token for Galaxy, right?

Author: Changed in 2b84951fc61422551f159ccf5df686beff5fb23e.

Configure a connection to one or more distribution servers so you can publish collections there. You only need to configure each distribution server once. You must repeat the other steps (building your collection tarball, preparing to publish, and publishing your collection) every time you publish a new collection or a new version of an existing collection.

1. Create a namespace on each distribution server you want to use (Galaxy, private Automation Hub, Red Hat Automation Hub).
2. Get an API token for each distribution server you want to use.
3. Specify the API token for each distribution server you want to use.

.. _get_namespace:

Creating a namespace
--------------------

> You must have a namespace on each distribution server (Galaxy, Red Hat Automation Hub, private Automation Hub) to upload your collection. To create a namespace:

Reviewer 2: Technically you don't need to create a namespace on community galaxy. By default your namespace is your username.

Author: Hm, so as long as you have a user account on Galaxy, you also have a namespace? Thanks, I'll add that in.

Author: Changed in 2b84951fc61422551f159ccf5df686beff5fb23e. I hope this is clear now.

> You must have a namespace on each distribution server (Galaxy, Red Hat Automation Hub, private Automation Hub) to upload your collection. To create a namespace:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You must have a namespace on each distribution server to upload your collection. The distribution servers are Galaxy, Red Hat Automation Hub, and private Automation Hub. The following procedure creates a namespace. 
```
Suggested improvement for simplicity, avoiding parentheses. I also said "The following procedure creates a namespace." as a full sentence versus "To create a namespace:" because typically we use "Create a namespace by running the following command:" but there is no following command, it's a procedure.

Author: Changed in 2b84951fc61422551f159ccf5df686beff5fb23e. Possibly fixed.

* To create a namespace on Red Hat Automation Hub, see the `Ansible Certified Content FAQ <https://access.redhat.com/articles/4916901>`_.

Specify the namespace in the :file:`galaxy.yaml` file for each collection. For more information on the :file:`galaxy.yaml` file, see :ref:`collections_galaxy_meta`.

.. _galaxy_get_token:

Getting your API token
----------------------

An API token authenticates your connection to each distribution server. You need a separate API token for each distribution server. Use the correct API token to connect to each distribution server securely and protect your content.

To get your API token:

* To get an API token for Galaxy, go to the `Galaxy profile preferences <https://galaxy.ansible.com/me/preferences>`_ page and click :guilabel:`API Key`.
* To get an API token for Automation Hub, go to `the token page <https://cloud.redhat.com/ansible/automation-hub/token/>`_ and click :guilabel:`Load token`.

.. _galaxy_specify_token:

Specifying your API token and distribution server
-------------------------------------------------

> Each time you publish a collection you must specify the API token and the distribution server to create a secure connection. You have two options for specifying the token and distribution server:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Each time you publish a collection, you must specify the API token and the distribution server to create a secure connection. You have two options for specifying the token and distribution server:
```

.. _config_distribution_server:

Initial configuration of your distribution server or servers
============================================================

Configure a connection to one or more distribution servers so you can publish collections there. You only need to configure each distribution server once. You must repeat the other steps (building your collection tarball, preparing to publish, and publishing your collection) every time you publish a new collection or a new version of an existing collection.

1. Create a namespace on each distribution server you want to use.
2. Get an API token for each distribution server you want to use.
3. Specify the API token for each distribution server you want to use.

.. _get_namespace:

Creating a namespace
--------------------

> You must upload your collection into a namespace on each distribution server. If you have a login for Ansible Galaxy, your Galaxy username is also a Galaxy namespace. You can create additional namespaces on Ansible Galaxy if you choose. For Red Hat Automation Hub and private Automation Hub you must create a namespace before you can upload your collection. To create a namespace:

Reviewer 3: > If you have a login for Ansible Galaxy, your Galaxy username is also a Galaxy namespace.

Unless you have hyphens in your username.

Author: Wow. Okay, that's a good catch. Thanks @s-hertel, I'll add that.

Author: Addressed in 60a5bfd89a256ebc871c5ecb87d7539c1c248c56. Thanks @s-hertel.

   url=https://galaxy.ansible.com/
   token=abcdefghijklmnopqrtuvwxyz

You cannot use ``apt-key`` with any servers defined in your :ref:`galaxy_server_list <galaxy_server_config>`. See :ref:`galaxy_server_config` for complete details.

.. _galaxy_use_token_arg:

Specifying the token at the command line
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

You can specify the API token at the command line using the ``--token`` argument of the :ref:`ansible-galaxy` command. There are three ways to specify the distribution server when passing the token at the command line:

* using the ``--server`` argument of the :ref:`ansible-galaxy` command
* relying on the default (https://galaxy.ansible.com)
* setting a server in configuration by creating a :ref:`GALAXY_SERVER` setting in your :file:`ansible.cfg` file

For example:

.. code-block:: bash

     ansible-galaxy collection publish path/to/my_namespace-my_collection-1.0.0.tar.gz --token abcdefghijklmnopqrtuvwxyz

.. warning::

   Using the ``--token`` argument is insecure. Passing secrets at the command line may expose them to others on the system.

.. _building_collections:

Building your collection tarball
================================

> After you configure one or more distribution servers, you must build a collection tarball. To build a collection tarball:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
After configuring one or more distribution servers, build a collection tarball. The following procedure builds a collection tarball.
```
Keeping the active voice and consistency with an earlier review comment.

Author: Fixed in 2b84951fc61422551f159ccf5df686beff5fb23e.

    └── ...

.. note::
   * To reduce the size of collections, certain files and folders are excluded from the collection tarball by default. See :ref:`ignoring_files_and_folders_collections` if your collection directory contains other files you want to exclude.

>    * If you used the now-deprecated ``Mazer`` tool for any of your collections, delete all files that Mazer added to your :file:`releases/` directory before you build your collection with ``ansible-galaxy``.

Reviewer 2: Do we still need the Mazer refs?  It's been EOL since Ansible 2.9 was released.

Author: Fixed in 2b84951fc61422551f159ccf5df686beff5fb23e.

For example, to exclude the :file:`sensitive` folder within the ``playbooks`` folder as well any ``.tar.gz`` archives, set the following in your ``galaxy.yml`` file:

.. code-block:: yaml

     build_ignore:
     - playbooks/sensitive
     - '*.tar.gz'

For more information on the :file:`galaxy.yml` file, see :ref:`collections_galaxy_meta`.

.. note::
     The ``build_ignore`` feature is only supported with ``ansible-galaxy collection build`` in Ansible 2.10 or newer.

.. _trying_collection_locally:

Preparing to publish your collection
====================================

Each time you publish your collection, you must create a :ref:`new version <collection_versions>` on the distribution server. After you publish a version of a collection, you cannot delete or modify that version. To avoid unnecessary extra versions, check your collection for bugs, typos, and other issues locally before publishing:

#. Install the collection locally.
#. Review the locally installed collection before publishing a new version.

Installing your collection locally
----------------------------------

You can install your collection locally in two ways:

  * from the tarball

>   * from your git repository

Reviewer 4: @acozine Suggestion to capitalize and add a period at the end of each sentence:
- From the tarball.
- From your git repository.

Author: Addressed in 60a5bfd89a256ebc871c5ecb87d7539c1c248c56. Thanks @lmalivert.

     - '*.tar.gz'

.. note::
     The ``build_ignore`` feature is only supported with ``ansible-galaxy collection build`` in Ansible 2.10 or newer.

.. _trying_collection_locally:

Preparing to publish your collection
====================================

> Each time you publish your collection, you must create a :ref:`new version <collection_versions>` on the distribution server. After you publish a version of a collection, you cannot delete or modify that version. To avoid unnecessary extra versions, check your collection for bugs, typos, and other issues locally before publishing:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Each time you publish your collection, you must create a :ref:`new version <collection_versions>` on the distribution server. After you publish a version of a collection, you cannot delete or modify that version. To avoid unnecessary extra versions, check your collection for bugs, typos, and other issues locally before publishing.
```

Author: Thanks for the detailed comments and suggestions. In my mind, the `:` connects the paragraph to the two list items below. With a `.` there instead, the connection feels less clear. I prefer the flow with the `:`.

^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

To install your collection locally from the tarball, run ``ansible-galaxy collection install`` and specify the collection tarball. You can optionally specify a location using the ``-p`` flag. For example:

.. code-block:: bash

   collection_dir#> ansible-galaxy collection install my_namespace-my_collection-1.0.0.tar.gz -p ./collections

Install the tarball into a directory configured in :ref:`COLLECTIONS_PATHS` so Ansible can easily find and load the collection. If you do not specify a path value, ``ansible-galaxy collection install`` installs the collection in the first path defined in :ref:`COLLECTIONS_PATHS`.

.. _collections_scm_install:

Installing your collection locally from a git repository
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

To install your collection locally from a git repository, specify the repository and the branch you want to install:

.. code-block:: bash

   collection_dir#> ansible-galaxy collection install git+https://github.com/org/repo.git,devel

.. include:: ../shared_snippets/installing_collections_git_repo.txt

Reviewing your collection
-------------------------

> Next, review the collection:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Review the collection.
```
Minimalism. Next is unnecessary here.

Author: Fixed in 2b84951fc61422551f159ccf5df686beff5fb23e.

* Run a playbook that uses the modules and plugins in your collection. Verify that new features and functionality work as expected. For examples and more details see :ref:`Using collections <using_collections>`. 

> * Check the documentation for typos.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Verify the documentation does not contain typos.
```
Clear and more formal.

Author: True, but we're not aiming for formality in the upstream docs.

> * Check that the version number of your tarball is higher than the latest published version on the distribution server or servers.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Verify that the version number of your tarball is higher than the latest published version on the distribution server or servers.
```
Consistency with above comment.

* If you find any issues, fix them and rebuild the collection tarball.

.. _collection_versions:

Understanding collection versioning
-----------------------------------

The only way to change a collection is to release a new version. The latest version of a collection (by highest version number) is the version displayed everywhere in Galaxy and Automation Hub. Users can still download older versions.

Follow semantic versioning when setting the version for your collection. In summary:

> * Increment major (for example: x in `x.y.z`) version number for an incompatible API change.

Reviewer: I think it would be best to avoid for example: in the parentheses. If there is an alternate way, I'd suggest using it to avoid the use of parentheses in this manner.

Author: Fixed in 2b84951fc61422551f159ccf5df686beff5fb23e.

* Increment minor (for example: y in `x.y.z`) version number for new functionality in a backwards compatible manner (for example new modules/plugins, parameters, return values).
* Increment patch (for example: z in `x.y.z`) version number for backwards compatible bug fixes.

Read the official `Semantic Versioning <https://semver.org/>`_ documentation for details and examples.

.. _publish_collection:

Publishing your collection
==========================

The last step in distributing your collection is publishing the tarball to Ansible Galaxy, Red Hat Automation Hub, or a privately hosted Automation Hub instance. You can publish your collection in two ways:

* from the command line using the ``ansible-galaxy collection publish`` command
* from the website of the distribution server (Galaxy, Automation Hub) itself

.. _upload_collection_ansible_galaxy:
.. _publish_collection_galaxy_cmd:

Publishing a collection from the command line
---------------------------------------------

> To upload the collection tarball from the command line using ``ansible-galaxy``:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To upload the collection tarball from the command line using ``ansible-galaxy``, run the following command:
```

.. code-block:: bash

     ansible-galaxy collection publish path/to/my_namespace-my_collection-1.0.0.tar.gz

.. note::

> 	The above command assumes you have retrieved and stored your API token in configuration. See :ref:`galaxy_specify_token` for details.

Reviewer: Per the IBM style guide, try to avoid using above. This comment applies throughout the doc.

> above: previous, or can often be removed
Example:
Reenter the API key from the above field to confirm it.
Reenter the API key from the previous field to confirm it.

Author: Good catch. I've eliminated a few of the "above" references, but there are still quite a few.

Author: Fixed in 2b84951fc61422551f159ccf5df686beff5fb23e.
